Bump Istio to 1.29.1 (#1965)
kyma-project/istio: docs/release-notes/1.27.0.md

## Istio Updated to Version 1.29

We've updated the Istio version to 1.29. See [Announcing Istio 1.29](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.29.x/announcing-1.29/) and the [Istio 1.29 Upgrade Notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.29.x/announcing-1.29/upgrade-notes/).

> Istio 1.29 introduces three upstream breaking changes related to the Kyma Istio module installation. To avoid disruption, the following temporary workarounds are applied to the Kyma Istio installation. These workarounds are intended to be removed in **late July** once consumers have had time to adapt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.29 introduces three upstream changes related to the Kyma Istio module. To avoid disruption, the following temporary workarounds are applied to the Kyma Istio installation. These workarounds are intended to be removed in late July.
```

### Circuit Breaker Metrics Tracking Disabled by Default

> Istio 1.29 disables remaining circuit-breaker capacity metrics by default (`DISABLE_TRACK_REMAINING_CB_METRICS=true`). Prometheus dashboards or alerts that rely on these metrics will see no data after the upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.29 disables remaining circuit-breaker capacity metrics by default (`DISABLE_TRACK_REMAINING_CB_METRICS=true`). After you upgrade, Prometheus dashboards or alerts that rely on these metrics will show no data.
```

> **Mitigation:** We set `DISABLE_TRACK_REMAINING_CB_METRICS=false` in the istiod deployment to preserve the previous behavior. This workaround will be removed in late July; at that point, remaining circuit-breaker metrics will no longer be emitted by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Mitigation:** We set `DISABLE_TRACK_REMAINING_CB_METRICS=false` in the istiod deployment to preserve the previous behavior. This workaround will be removed in late July. At that point, remaining circuit-breaker metrics will no longer be emitted by default.
```
For each change, I would also add a section "Required action: ..." and specify exactly what the user must do to adapt

### Debug Endpoint Authorization Enabled by Default

> Istio 1.29 enables debug endpoint authorization by default (`ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=true`). Tools accessing Istio debug endpoints from non-system namespaces (such as Kiali or custom monitoring tools) may receive `403` responses after the upgrade.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.29 enables debug endpoint authorization by default (`ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=true`). Tools accessing Istio debug endpoints from non-system namespaces, such as Kiali or custom monitoring tools, may receive `403` responses after the upgrade.
```

> **Mitigation:** We set `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=false` in the istiod deployment to preserve unrestricted access. This workaround will be removed in late July; at that point, non-system namespaces will be restricted to the `config_dump`, `ndsz`, and `edsz` debug endpoints for same-namespace proxies only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Mitigation:** We set `ENABLE_DEBUG_ENDPOINT_AUTH=false` in the istiod deployment to preserve unrestricted access. This workaround will be removed in late July. At that point, non-system namespaces will be restricted to the `config_dump`, `ndsz`, and `edsz` debug endpoints, available only to same-namespace proxies.
```

### HTTP Compression of Envoy Metrics Enabled by Default

> Istio 1.29 enables HTTP compression (brotli, gzip, zstd) for the Envoy `prometheus_stats` endpoint by default. Metric scrapers that send an `Accept-Encoding` header but cannot decompress responses may fail to collect metrics. Additionally, the `sidecar.istio.io/statsCompression` pod annotation has been **removed**; workloads using it must migrate to the `proxy.istio.io/config` annotation with `statsCompression: false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.29 enables HTTP compression (Brotli, Gzip, Zstd) for the Envoy **prometheus_stats** endpoint by default. Metric scrapers that send the **Accept-Encoding** header but cannot decompress responses may fail to collect metrics. Additionally, the `sidecar.istio.io/statsCompression` Pod annotation has been removed.
```

> **Mitigation:** We set `statsCompression: false` globally in `MeshConfig.defaultConfig` to disable compression mesh-wide, matching the previous behavior. This workaround will be removed in late July; at that point, compression will be active by default and `sidecar.istio.io/statsCompression` will no longer be recognized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Mitigation:** We set `statsCompression: false` globally in `MeshConfig.defaultConfig` to disable compression mesh-wide, matching the previous behavior. This workaround will be removed in late July. At that point, compression will be active by default, and `sidecar.istio.io/statsCompression` will no longer be recognized.

**Required action:** 
- Verify if your metric scrapers support decompressing Brotli, Gzip, or Zstd responses. 
- Migrate workloads that use the annotation `sidecar.istio.io/statsCompression` to the annotation `proxy.istio.io/config` with `statsCompression: false`.
```
